Prebuilt detection rules: new UI for installing and upgrading (#3552)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/rules-prebuilt.asciidoc

[float]
[[prebuilt-rule-tags]]
=== Prebuilt rule tags

Each prebuilt rule includes several tags identifying the rule's purpose, detection method, associated resources, and other information to help categorize your rules. These tags are category-value pairs, such as `OS: Windows` for a rule designed for Windows endpoints. Categories include:

* `Data Source`: The application, cloud provider, data shipper, or Elastic integration providing data for the rule.
* `Domain`: A general category of data source types (such as cloud, endpoint, or network).
* `OS`: The host operating system, which could be considered another type of data source.
* `Resources`: Additional rule resources such as investigation guides.
* `Rule Type`: Identifies if the rule depends on specialized resources (such as machine learning jobs or threat intelligence indicators), or if it's a higher-order rule built from other rules' alerts.
* `Tactic`: MITRE ATT&CK tactics that the rule addresses.
* `Threat`: Specific threats the rule detects (such as Cobalt Strike or BPFDoor).
* `Use Case`: The type of activity the rule detects and its purpose. Use cases include:

> ** `Asset Visibility`: Detects changes to specified asset types.

Reviewer: Seems that one use case is missing here: `Active Directory Monitoring`
![image](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/137783811/7fa2bf07-814f-4101-af37-43ed334b2f6d)

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prebuilt-rules-update.png[The Rule Updates tab on the Rules page]

. Do one of the following:
* Update all available rules: Click *Update all*.
* Update a single rule: Click *Update rule* for that rule.
* Update multiple rules: Select the rules and click *Update _x_ selected rule(s)*.
+
TIP: Use the search bar and *Tags* filter to find the rules you want to update. For example, filter by `OS: Windows` if your environment only includes Windows endpoints. For more on tag categories, refer to <<prebuilt-rule-tags>>.

[float]
[[download-prebuilt-rules]]
=== Download latest Elastic prebuilt rules

As of {stack} >=7.13.0, you can download the latest version of Elastic prebuilt rules outside of a regular release cycle. This feature ensures you have the latest detection capabilities before upgrading to the latest {stack}.

To download the latest version of prebuilt rules:

. In {kib}, go to *Management* -> *Integrations*.
. Search for "Prebuilt Security Detection Rules."
. Select the integration, then select the *Settings* tab. The integration settings page is displayed.
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/install-prebuilt-settings.png[]

Reviewer: I think this UI has changed: 
![image](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/137783811/e683bcb7-7a43-4c1e-af5f-4c49d703029f)

Author: ^^ That's what the UI looks like when the rules are already installed, but for a brand-new deployment the current screenshot _almost_ matches the UI — the API reference tab is new, so I'll update with that.

Reviewer: Ah, got it!

[[rules-prebuilt]]
== Install Elastic prebuilt rules

:frontmatter-description: Start detections quickly with prebuilt rules designed and updated by Elastic.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [security]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [manage]

> Follow these guidelines to start using the {es-sec-app}'s <<prebuilt-rules, prebuilt rules>>, keep them updated, and make sure they have the data needed to run successfully. 

Reviewer 2: Do we want to point to the [Prebuilt rule reference](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/8.8/prebuilt-rules.html) page? AFIAK, the page isn't maintained anymore and it's last update was in 8.6. Would it make more sense to link to the [Downloadable rule updates](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/prebuilt-rules-downloadable-updates.html) page?

cc @terrancedejesus since we [talked](https://elastic.slack.com/archives/CED7QCL3E/p1684435236800429?thread_ts=1684419596.465149&cid=CED7QCL3E) about this page's maintenance a couple of months ago.

Reviewer 3: 👋🏽 @nastasha-solomon 

We actually were asked by @approksiu and AET to update our process to update this doc every release. We are tracking this request and work here -> https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/issues/2867

> Follow these guidelines to start using the {es-sec-app}'s <<prebuilt-rules, prebuilt rules>>, keep them updated, and make sure they have the data needed to run successfully. 

Author: It's a lot easier to change the name of this page, from `rules-prebuilt` to `prebuilt-rules-management`, because it's a net-new page created in this PR. No established SEO or redirects we have to consider.

Renaming the existing `Prebuilt rule reference` page is trickier since it's such a long-established URL with lots of SEO history, AND there might be other internal processes that depend on that location (TRADE manages publishing of prebuilt rule docs, and I'm not familiar enough to know how this would affect their process). But I think it's worth investigating for the reasons you bring up. I've created a separate issue (#3597)  so we can follow up on renaming that page while also moving forward with the rest of this PR.

> Follow these guidelines to start using the {es-sec-app}'s <<prebuilt-rules, prebuilt rules>>, keep them updated, and make sure they have the data needed to run successfully. 

Reviewer 4: Thank you @joepeeples, especially for such a thorough comment with all the links. Really appreciate this!

* <<load-prebuilt-rules>>
* <<prebuilt-rule-tags>>
* <<select-all-prebuilt-rules>>
* <<update-prebuilt-rules>>
* <<download-prebuilt-rules>>
* <<rule-prerequisites>>

[NOTE]
====

> * Apart from the Elastic Endpoint rule, prebuilt rules do not start running by default. You must first install the rules, then enable them.

Author: Slight tweak to Georgii's suggestion -- I feel like I've been encouraged in the past to avoid "out of the box" as somewhat colloquial:
```suggestion
* Prebuilt rules do not start running by default. You must first install the rules, then enable them. After installation, only a few prebuilt rules will be enabled by default, such as the Endpoint Security rule.
```

> * You can't modify most settings on Elastic prebuilt rules. You can only edit <<rule-schedule, rule actions>> and <<add-exceptions, add exceptions>>. If you want to modify other settings on a prebuilt rule, you must first duplicate it, then make your changes to the duplicated rule. 

Reviewer 2: Should the link to the rule action be `rule-notifications` instead? Right now, it's pointing to the instructions for setting a rule's execution schedule.

```suggestion
* You can't modify most settings on Elastic prebuilt rules. You can only edit <<rule-notifications, rule actions>> and <<add-exceptions, add exceptions>>. If you want to modify other settings on a prebuilt rule, you must first duplicate it, then make your changes to the duplicated rule. 
```

====

[float]
[[load-prebuilt-rules]]
=== Install and enable Elastic prebuilt rules

. Go to *Manage* -> *Rules*. The badge next to *Add Elastic rules* shows the number of uninstalled prebuilt rules available. 
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/prebuilt-rules-add-badge.png[The Add Elastic Rules page]

Reviewer 2: I know this is a long-ish image, but it might need to be a smidge larger. Idk if we can go over 100%, but if we can, here's something you can try:

```suggestion
image::images/prebuilt-rules-add-badge.png[The Add Elastic Rules page, 110%]
```

Author: Looks like you can't extend an image past the column's width (I tried both % and pixel count). The image looks readable on my monitor, but it's admittedly super high-def. I can try retaking a more compact image so the text is larger.

Author: Images updated: https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3552/commits/40d00a0c10ad864abf612b614a2224dcdb8aa47d

. Click *Add Elastic rules*, then do one of the following:
* Install all available rules: Click *Install all*.
* Install a single rule: Click *Install rule* for that rule.
* Install multiple rules: Select the rules and click *Install _x_ selected rule(s)*.
+

> TIP: Use the search bar and *Tags* filter to find the rules you want to install. For example, filter by `OS: Windows` if your environment only includes Windows endpoints. For more on tag categories, refer to <<prebuilt-rule-tags>>.

Reviewer 2: This is great pro-tip!

+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/prebuilt-rules-add.png[The Add Elastic Rules page]

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion here about making the image slightly larger.

Author: will address above: https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3552/files#r1268678303

> . Go back to the *Rules* page, then search or filter for any rules you want to start running, and do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Go back to the *Rules* page, search or filter for any rules you want run, and do either of the following:
```

Author: Tweak:
```suggestion
. Go back to the *Rules* page, search or filter for any rules you want to run, and do either of the following:
```

> * Enable a single rule: Turn on rule's the *Enabled* switch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enable a single rule: Turn on the rule's *Enabled* switch.
```

Author: whoops, thanks for catching that 😅

* Enable multiple rules: Select the rules, then click *Bulk actions* -> *Enable*.

Once you enable a rule, it starts running on its configured schedule. To confirm that it's running successfully, check its *Last response* status in the rules table, or open the rule's details page and check the <<rule-execution-logs, *Execution results*>> tab.

[float]
[[prebuilt-rule-tags]]
=== Prebuilt rule tags

> Each prebuilt rule includes several tags identifying the rule's purpose, detection method, associated resources, and other information to help categorize your rules. These tags are category-value pairs, such as `OS: Windows` for a rule designed for Windows endpoints. Categories include:

Reviewer 2: It could just be personal preference, but I think `for example` works slightly better than `such as` here. 

```suggestion
Each prebuilt rule includes several tags identifying the rule's purpose, detection method, associated resources, and other information to help categorize your rules. These tags are category-value pairs, for example, the `OS: Windows` tag indicates which rules are designed for Windows endpoints. Categories include:
```

Author: Slight modification:
```suggestion
Each prebuilt rule includes several tags identifying the rule's purpose, detection method, associated resources, and other information to help categorize your rules. These tags are category-value pairs; for example, `OS: Windows` indicates rules designed for Windows endpoints. Categories include:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Is child process another default rule tag?

<img width="378" alt="Screenshot 2023-07-18 at 4 23 19 PM" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/79124755/ca19f3d9-4dd2-4cca-8cdf-4e6024f18c95">

* `Data Source`: The application, cloud provider, data shipper, or Elastic integration providing data for the rule.
* `Domain`: A general category of data source types (such as cloud, endpoint, or network).

> * `OS`: The host operating system, which could be considered another type of data source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `OS`: The host operating system, which could be considered another data source type.
```

* `Threat`: Specific threats the rule detects (such as Cobalt Strike or BPFDoor).
* `Use Case`: The type of activity the rule detects and its purpose. Use cases include:
** `Active Directory Monitoring`: Detects changes related to Active Directory.
** `Asset Visibility`: Detects changes to specified asset types.
** `Configuration Audit`: Detects undesirable configuration changes.
** `Guided Onboarding`: Example rule, used for {elastic-sec}'s guided onboarding tour.
** `Identity and Access Audit`: Detects activity related to identity and access management (IAM).
** `Log Auditing`: Detects activity on log configurations or storage.
** `Network Security Monitoring`: Detects network security configuration activity.
** `Threat Detection`: Detects threats.
** `Vulnerability`: Detects exploitation of specific vulnerabilities.

[float]
[[select-all-prebuilt-rules]]
=== Select and duplicate all prebuilt rules

. Go to *Manage* -> *Rules*, then select the *Elastic rules* filter.
. Click *Select all _x_ rules* above the rules table.
. Click *Bulk actions* -> *Duplicate*.
. Select whether to duplicate the rules' exceptions, then click *Duplicate*.

> You can then modify the duplicated rules and, if required, delete the prebuilt ones.

Author: Good point. We actually mention duplicating rules in two places on this page, so I added some explanation to both; added in https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3552/commits/5649b5476e6dc07b08e64406f1789eb1ace307fc.

. Go to *Manage* -> *Rules*, then select the *Rule Updates* tab.
+
NOTE: The *Rule Updates* tab doesn't appear if all your installed prebuilt rules are up to date.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prebuilt-rules-update.png[The Rule Updates tab on the Rules page]

. Do one of the following:
* Update all available rules: Click *Update all*.
* Update a single rule: Click *Update rule* for that rule.
* Update multiple rules: Select the rules and click *Update _x_ selected rule(s)*.
+
TIP: Use the search bar and *Tags* filter to find the rules you want to update. For example, filter by `OS: Windows` if your environment only includes Windows endpoints. For more on tag categories, refer to <<prebuilt-rule-tags>>.

[float]
[[download-prebuilt-rules]]
=== Download latest Elastic prebuilt rules

As of {stack} >=7.13.0, you can download the latest version of Elastic prebuilt rules outside of a regular release cycle. This feature ensures you have the latest detection capabilities before upgrading to the latest {stack}.

To download the latest version of prebuilt rules:

. In {kib}, go to *Management* -> *Integrations*.

> . Search for "Prebuilt Security Detection Rules."

Reviewer 2: Should this be styled differently since it's technically an input? For example:
```suggestion
. Search for: `Prebuilt Security Detection Rules`
```

Reviewer 2: Another option:
```suggestion
. Search for `Prebuilt Security Detection Rules`.
```

. Select the integration, then select the *Settings* tab. The integration settings page is displayed.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/install-prebuilt-settings.png[]
+
. Click *Install Prebuilt Security Detection Rules assets*.
. Click *Install Prebuilt Security Detection Rules* to confirm the installation.
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/install-prebuilt-rules.png[]

Reviewer 4: I have doubts about the necessity of describing this in the docs, since this package is installed automatically when users visit Security pages, such as the Rule Management page, or the newly added Add Rules page.

Also, it can be a source of confusion, because what is installed with this package is not prebuilt rules themselves, but their "sources" (or "assets") that the app uses later when the user installs or upgrades prebuilt rules. And I think this is a technical/implementation detail of this feature.

Maybe we could just mention that prebuilt rules are distributed by Elastic via this package, but users don't need to manually install or upgrade it. What could be useful in theory is:

- users could check the versions of the installed and latest available packages in this UI
- users could reinstall the package if they suspect the source data for rebuilt rules has been damaged

I think both cases are more about troubleshooting issues with prebuilt rules, rather than prebuilt rules management.

Reviewer 5: I agree, also the rule updates between release cycles will appear automatically on the updates tab - so no need to install anything via the integration.

Author: Convincing points, thanks @banderror and @approksiu! I’m still a little hesitant to remove this entirely without a little more investigation, to make sure no other pages rely on it and that no one else is expecting this to be documented. For example, it’s referenced on the [Downloadable rule updates](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/prebuilt-rules-downloadable-updates.html) page, and I’m not sure where else that page can point readers to if we remove this section.

For the sake of getting the rest of this PR into 8.9, I did [revise](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3552/commits/d49ac09c1c1e69bea3c30173c6ec702f47fc0636) the introduction to reduce confusion, and moved it to the end of the page. I can revisit this soon to remove/revise further as needed.
